Title: Flush flood and heavy landslides create havocs in Dima Hasao - APN News
Source: https://www.apnnews.com/flush-flood-and-heavy-landslides-create-havocs-in-dima-hasao/
As the years pass by, technology also widens, and more and more are being discovered. From simple gadgets..

Sharing "specific information" with the income tax department about any benami..
 The merger of two neutron stars that generated gravitational waves detected last year may have led to the birth..
 Los Angeles, CA : Multi-Platinum singer/songwriter Shawn Mendes released his highly anticipated self-titled third album today, via Island Records. Get..
 Dubai- ZOTAC International, a leading innovator and manufacturer of graphic cards and mini-
 New Delhi: Palash Chhabra, a student of ITM University,..

by Ayurvedacharya Dr.Hitesh Jani
Dr.Hitesh Jani


Irina Gurjeva
Irina Gurjeva is not just another vacationer in..
AASU, 28 other organisations ‘gana satyagraha’ in Kokrajhar
Normal life badly affected in Manipur by flash flood following incessant rain
Published on June 14, 2018
Correspondent
At Kalachand under Mabang Police Station eight persons and five dumpers were washed away in the Mahur River but six of them were rescued while two persons remained missing, SDRF team requisitioned for search and rescue operation.
 
At Hangrum, under Mahur Police station mother 69 years and son 35 named Ramsuahungle Riame and Paotuingyuing Riame were found dead buried under heavy landslide.
The Rail communication between Lumding and Badarpur was disrupted due to landslides in between Jatinga –Harangajao  and Daotuhaja and Phiding. All the trains were either terminated or sent back to originating station. The restoration works was carried out in a war footing way and cleared the landslides within six hours. The train services are yet to resume till the filing of this report.
All together 24 villages of Dima Hasao unde three blocks like Harangajao, Mahur and Maibang were reported to be affected due to landslides wherein many dwelling houses and the roads were damaged.
Meanwhile the Deputy Commissioner, Amitabh Rajkhowa while talking to media requested all the passengers to avoid night journey from Dima Hasao to other districts. DC said   the road communication between Lumding –Haflong would take three to four days for restoration as there has been heavy landslides near Kelelo and N Leikul . He assured that the DDMA has all ready been alerted and the entire line department instructed to remain ready to tackle the situation in a right way. He further said, the food and Civil Supply department has also been instructed to be prepared with sufficient food stuff.