Title: Assam Cabinet Decisions: Certificates for minorities now - Sentinelassam - The Sentinel Assam
Source: https://www.sentinelassam.com/topheadlines/assam-cabinet-decisions-certificates-for-minorities-now-594213
GUWAHATI: The State Cabinet took a slew of decisions, including issuing certificates to the minorities in line with SC, ST and OBC certificates.  
Addressing the media at Janata Bhawan after the Cabinet meeting today, Health Minister Keshab Mahanta said, "The government will issue certificates to people belonging to minority communities in the state like Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains and Parsis for their identification. It will be in line with ST, SC and OBC certificates."  
Keshab Mahanta said, "The government will deposit Rs 142.50 crore as PF premiums for ATCL workers. Tea garden management gets compensation as and when the government acquisitions TE lands. The Cabinet decided that the TE management will have to spend 10 per cent of the compensation amount for the rehabilitation of tea labourers."  
On developing eco-tourism in tea gardens, the minister said, "Tea gardens can develop 5 per cent of their lands for eco-tourism. The tea gardens can take eco-tourism ventures themselves or collaborate with the government. They, however, cannot rope in a third party for such ventures, nor can they lease out land for the purpose. The youths of tea gardens will get the job avenues in such eco-tourism ventures."  
The other decisions, according to the minister, are –   
(i) Ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to 288 men and 57 women affected during the Assam Agitation. The women will get the amount earlier than the men. The men will get the ex gratia amount on Swahid Divas (December 10).  
(ii) Digging up 3,007 ponds (amrit sarobars) each costing Rs 24 lakh (total expenditure is Rs 1,208 crore) by August 15, 2023,   
(iii) Payment of regular salaries to 1,328 computer teachers under the Dr Banikanta Kakati Computer Literacy Programme, instead of fixation of ceiling payment, and  
Also Watch:   
  
   
© 2019-20. All rights reserved
Powered By Hocalwire