Title: People of Assam's Dima Hasao face manifold problems for deplorable condition of 4-lane East-West corridor part | Indiablooms - First Portal on Digital News Management - indiablooms
Source: https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/73989/people-of-assam-s-dima-hasao-face-manifold-problems-for-deplorable-condition-of-4-lane-east-west-corridor-part.html
Guwahati: People of Assam’s Dima Hasao district are yet to get good road communication even after decades-long wait as there has been no sign of sincerity or responsibility in completing the much publicized East-West corridor from Porbandar to Silchar which runs through Dima Hasao.
 The National Highway – 54 (E), part of the East West Corridor – the dream project of former Prime Minister Late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, which covers about 493 km from Silchar to Itanagar via Kalain, which is the lifeline of around 5-7 lakh people of Assam’s Dima Hasao, Cachar district is still remains in the most pathetic condition.
 The people of hill district Dima Hasao have faced manifold problems for deplorable condition of the National Highway.
 Even after a decade it still remains in the most pathetic condition.
 The condition of this National Highway – 54 (E) is totally worst in between Nriambanglo to Nriambanglo and Balacherra in Dima Hasao district.
 The commuters have to suffer a lot especially during the monsoon season due to deplorable condition of the road.
 Before 2005, the road communication from Haflong to Silchar though narrow but were regular.
 Locals said that, there were as many 10 ASTC bus services from Haflong, but now there is no single service perhaps due to the deplorable road condition.
 The construction of highway started long back from now but road between Nriambanglo to Silchar via Jatinga, Harangajao and Balacherra are yet to be completed.
 Though the project was the dream project of the then Prime Minister Atal Behari Bajpayee, but the incomplete portion from Nrimbanglo to Silchar is causing a serious concern.
 According to the press release issued by Ministry of Road Transport & Highways on July 19, 2018 in regards to 4-lane of NH-54 in Assam that, the work for 4-laning of Balachera - Harangajao section of NH-54 (ext.) in Assam was awarded by National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation (NHIDCL) on 31.10.2017 on EPC mode at a cost of Rs 519.30 crore.
 The appointed date was declared on December 26, 2017, but the physical progress of the road construction is very less.
 Jatinga to Harangajao section of NH-54 in Dima Hasao district got severely affected, damaged by landslide, hill movement, slip failure and sinking, looking into the gravity of the problem, it has been decided to adopt for split 4-line construction (2-lane on new alignment and 2-lane along existing alignment) for the affected section.
 The condition of the road is so pitiable that the people are facing difficulty in getting the patient to the hospital.
 Rajesh Nunisa – a local resident of Harangajao said that, the construction work of 4-lane NH-54 was started 10-12 years before, but a major part of Dima Hasao district is yet to be completed.
 “The condition of the road is so pitiable and the people are facing various problems for this. Vehicular movement has been affected due to worst condition of the road. The condition of Harangajao to Haflong portion of the road is very bad. It was the dream project of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, but we don’t when it will be completed, when we will get a suitable and good condition of road,” Rajesh Nunisa said.
 Amon Maibangsa – a local youthof Harangajao area said that – “We have now been feeling that this road will never be completed.”
 “Earlier, we had given memorandum to the government in many occasions and also staged protest to complete the road, but we have not any result, there is no sign of any positivity. We again appeal to the government to complete the road and give a relief to the people of Dima Hasao,” Amon Maibangsa said.
 There have been series of agitations, submission of memorandum demanding immediate completion of the portion but the authority concerned remained indifferent after making some promises.
 Earlier, buffaloes were seen as wallowing in the potholed in the Haflong-Harangajao portion of the road.