Title: Weather News Updates: Flood-like Situation in Assam After Heavy Rain; Thunderstorm to Bring Some Relief fro - News18
Source: https://www.news18.com/news/india/49-degrees-in-delhi-dust-storms-in-punjab-north-india-sizzles-as-mercury-hits-record-high-rain-alert-in-kerala-5180497.html
A village road in Assam's Gohpur town was washed away due to heavy rains and flood. (Image: News18)
Delhiites woke up to a partly cloudy sky on Monday morning with the meteorological department forecasting a thunderstorm or dust storm in the national capital that could bring down the mercury by a few notches thereby providing temporary relief from the sweltering heat.
The MeT department said a cyclonic circulation over Punjab and Haryana will induce pre-monsoon activity that will provide some relief from the intense heat on Monday and Tuesday. The IMD said a thunderstorm or a dust storm is likely in the national capital on Monday.
A MeT official said that while the highest temperature in 122 years was recorded in March, May would be normal as the first ten days showed.
Meanwhile, the weather office has warned of heavy rainfall across Kerala and sounded a red alert for five districts.
Heavy rains in Assam over the last one week have caused flood-like conditions in the state with more than 67,000 people already affected. The floods washed away a road in Dima Hasao district, resulting in three deaths. The Union Ministry of Water Resources on Saturday released 125 crores from Assam flood control fund.
Here are the latest weather updates:
Two people died when their house was hit by a massive landslide triggered by incessant downpour, near Punjabi Dhaba here, police said on Monday. A woman is still trapped inside the mud house, which came crashing down Sunday night due to the impact of the landslide, Capital Superintendent of Police (SP) Jimmy Chiram said.
While two bodies have been retrieved from the debris, the fate of the woman is yet to be known, he said. An operation is underway to rescue her, the SP added.
The IMD had earlier forecast widespread light/moderate rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next five days
Banda district in Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region recorded the maximum day temperature of 49 degrees Celsius, the highest in the state. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) data, this was the highest-ever temperature recorded in Banda in May.
The previous maximum temperature in the district was 48.8 deg Celsius on May 31, 1994. Churu and Pilani in Rajasthan reported maximum temperatures of 47.9 and 47.7 degrees Celsius, respectively, followed by Sri Ganganagar and Jhansi (47.6), Narnaul (47.5), Khajuraho and Nowgong (47.4) and Hissar (47.2), the IMD said.
While north India braved high temperatures, most parts of the southern peninsula experienced heavy rainfall with Kerala and Lakshadweep reporting heavy spells of 52.2 mm and 57.7 mm on Sunday, respectively.
Residents of Madhya Pradesh are likely to get a respite from the severe hot weather this week as the temperature has started going down and the mercury is expected to dip further over the next few days, a MeT official said on Monday. On Saturday, Nowgaon and Khajuraho in Chhatarpur district sizzled at 48 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature at both the places slightly dipped to 47 degrees Celsius on Sunday.
The mercury is expected to go down further from Tuesday. The temperature is likely to fall by two to four degrees Celsius in the next three days, P K Saha, senior meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s Bhopal office, told PTI. On the slight change in weather, he said a north-south trough was running from west Uttar Pradesh to south-west Madhya Pradesh which is clouding some parts of the state.
Thunderstorm and rain along with light hailstorm is expected to be seen in parts of Himachal Pradesh from Monday to Wednesday, bringing a respite from the prevailing heat spell. Rain and snowfall is likely in higher altitude areas of the state, the Meteorological department said in Shimla on Monday.
Due to fresh Western Disturbance in mid troposphere levels with its axis at 5.8 km above mean sea level, light to moderate thunderstorm or rainfall is expected, it said. Una was the hottest place in the state on Sunday with maximum temperature of 44 degrees Celsius followed by 41 degrees in Kangra, 40 degrees in Hamirpur, 39.2 degrees in Bilaspur, 39 degrees in Chamba, 37.7 degrees in Sundernagar, 37.5 degrees in Nahan and Bhunter, 37.2 degrees in Solan, 37 degrees in Dharamshala, 34.1 degrees in Palampur and 30.5 degrees Celsius in Shimla.
The weather office said under the influence of a western disturbance, dust storm and thunderstorm were expected over northern parts of Punjab and Haryana on Monday, while a mild dust storm was likely over remaining parts of Punjab, Haryana, west Uttar Pradesh and at isolated pockets of Delhi NCR.
The Met department on Sunday predicted rain or thundershower over the next five days in south Bengal districts, including Kolkata, which along with several other areas had been experiencing nor’westers or Kalbaishakhi regularly in May, after a dry April. The city experienced 23.8 mm rainfall in 24 hours till Sunday morning, the weatherman said.
Kolkata recorded a maximum temperature of 34.7 degree Celsius on Sunday, the Met department said. Purulia recorded the maximum day temperature in the state at 39 degree Celsius, it added.
At least three people were killed in landslides in Dima Hasao district of Assam. According to a bulletin issued by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) on Saturday night, three persons, including a woman, lost their lives in Haflong revenue circle of Dima Hasao.
The hill district has been ravaged by flash floods and massive landslides at several places, snapping rail and road links from other parts of the state. ASDMA said that landslides have been reported from New Kunjung, Fiangpui, Moulhoi, Namzeurang, South Bagetar, Mahadev Tilla, Kalibari, North Bagetar, Zion and Lodi Pangmoul villages, where around 80 houses were severely affected.
The ASDMA further said that nearly 25,000 people are affected by floods across five districts in Assam. The worst-hit is Cachar with over 21,000 people affected, followed by Karbi Anglong West with nearly 2,000 victims and Dhemaji with more than 600 persons hit by the deluge. At least 227 people are taking shelter in 10 relief camps and distribution centres set up across two districts.
In Jammu and Kashmir, heatwave gripped most parts of Jammu region with the mercury moving further up and settling at the season’s high of 43.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday, officials said. The city also marked a rise in the night temperature, which settled at 26.8 degrees Celsius 3.3 notches above the season’s average.
Katra, the base camp for the pilgrims visiting Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Reasi district, was the second hottest recorded place in Jammu region with a high of 41.5 degrees Celsius and a low of 23.8 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department officials said. Meanwhile, the summer capital Srinagar recorded a dip in the maximum temperature which settled at 29.8 degrees Celsius against Saturday’s 31.3 degrees Celsius. The day temperature in the city was 5.9 degrees above normal.
The night temperature was also three degrees above normal in Srinagar, which recorded a low of 13.6 degrees Celsius, the officials said. The weather office has predicted relief from the heatwave from Monday evening owing to inclement weather.
Follow us on
Download News18 App