Title: Incessant rains take three lives, disrupt road communications in Dima Hasao - Sentinelassam - The Sentinel Assam
Source: https://www.sentinelassam.com/north-east-india-news/assam-news/incessant-rains-take-three-lives-disrupt-road-communications-in-dima-hasao-584664
HAFLONG: Strong and incessant rains took three human lives and disrupted road communications between Lanka-Haflong, Haflong-Silchar, Mahur-Laisong etc. following landslides and overflowing rainwater in many locations in the district.  
Reports are pouring in that rain water is overflowing at several locations near Kopili project near Umrangso. Though the NEEPCO authority assured nothing wrong would happen but the people are of the opinion that since the water is overflowing from several locations and passing through the powerhouse it might cause damages to the power house.   
It is learnt that three persons namely Dimaraj Johori of Haflong Tinali (Contractual employee) Anupam Saikia of  Jorhat,  Deputy manager (civil) and  Jayanta Hazarika (Digboi) Manager (Civil) lost their lives while they were heading close to the intake gate due to heavy flow of water and wind. This has created a sense in and around Umrangso.  
Earlier there was a casualty where atleast four persons lost their lives due to blasting of the pipe and overflow of water at Kopili power house. NEEPCO officials said repair works were going on but suddenly water level increased due to heavy rain in Meghalaya. Now we are closing the intake gate to control the water flow.  
Local people expressed concern over the indifferent attitude of the NEEPCO authority.   
The Dima Hasao District Administration, meanwhile, has taken the initiative to mobilize all the line departments to be vigilant and to keep communication undisrupted.  
The railway communication is also not in a proper condition as in many locations the track is submerged in water in Lumding – Badarpur hill section. In another tragic incident, one person named Zingkaulang Jeme of 49 years was drowned in the Delaima river near Boro Henam village at around 12:00-1:00 pm on March 24. Rescue operation is still going on by F&ES & SDRF (Haflong & Hojai).  
Also Watch:   
  
© 2019-20. All rights reserved
Powered By Hocalwire