Title: Latest updates: Cattle trader from West Bengal shot dead in Odisha's Mayurbhanj - Times of India
Source: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/live-news-from-cities-weather-pollution-covid-cases-25-may-2022/liveblog/91776836.cms
Bihar: NHRC takes suo-motu cognizance of media reports that at least 6 persons died & 12 fell ill after they consumed spurious liquor in Aurangabad & Gaya. Issues notice to state govt calling for report; expresses concern over such incidents despite a ban on liquor in state. (ANI)
Thunderstorm,lightning with gust wind 30-40 kmph  and light to moderate rainfall  likely to continue over some parts of Birbhum, Nadia, East Burdwan districts  of West Bengal during next 1-2 hours today
"I am deeply pained by the loss of lives due to a tragic accident in Odisha’s Ganjam district. In this tragic hour, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I pray that those injured recover at the very earliest," PM Narendra Modi tweets
I am deeply pained by the loss of lives due to a tragic accident in Odisha’s Ganjam district. In this tragic hour,… https://t.co/O7kxY3VurX
Mamata Banerjee on accident in Odisha in which six people died
CA association gave me a representation, which says 2 of their associates have been arrested by Gurugram police in GST complaint. They say CA can only be arrested after referring with their association. I have sent representation to DGP:  Haryana HM Anil Vij
A cattle trader from West Bengal is shot dead in Mayurbhanj district on Wednesday morning.
The trader identified as Jamsed Ali was among five from West Bengal who had come to a market. Rs 20 lakh looted from him.
In the last 24 hours, two people lost their lives in the incidents of flood. 18 districts have reported floods. No incident of landslide occurred in the last 24 hours: Assam State Disaster Management Authority
Haryana: A big (Jungle) Safari Centre to be built in around 10,000 acres. We've marked the boundary for it and have also hired some companies for design. We are thinking of making Harayan a hub of tourism: CM Manohar Lal Khattar in Delhi
Six people were killed and over 40 injured after a bus overturned near Kalinga Ghat in Ganjam district last night
Assam | Recent landslides & floods in the Dima Hasao religion affected the train services in that area. Had damages at 60 locations, out of which 11 were restored, work is underway in the remaining area: Chief public relations officer of NF Railway, Sabyasachi De
Three persons have been apprehended last evening in connection with the rape of a 16-year-old girl at Salakati, Kokrajhar on Tuesday. Kokrajhar Police would ensure a timely submission of a strong charge sheet followed by expeditious trial.
We have to curb the mentality of those involved in corruption. Only transferring officials will not help. We've to bring honest officers into the field & sideline the corrupt ones. I'll speak with DGP & will also apprise CM Nitish Kumar about this: Bihar Assembly Speaker VK Sinha
There is a coal crisis not only in Rajasthan but in the whole country. As per rules, every power plant should have coal reserves of around 25 to 26 days, but today we have only 5-6 days of coal in every plant. We're not being allowed to do mining from Parsa and Parsa East Kente basin phase 2 coal mine. If we're not allowed to do so then Rajasthan will plunge into a severe power crisis.
Puducherry LG Tamilisai Soundarajan on Tuesday visited the integrated farm at Puducherry Central Prison to inspect the various measures taken by the prison administration for inmates. She lauded jail authorities for engaging inmates in organic livestock farming
Isolated heavy rainfall in Kerala for next five days
33 more test Covid positive in Madhya Pradesh, active cases up at 289
PM Narendra Modi to be in Hyderabad tomorrow for ISB's 20th anniv fete
In 25 years, Gir lions may make Ahmedabad their home
Hyderabad on alert after 2nd man is B.A positive
Active Covid tally jumps to 99 cases in Goa